When I entered junior high, an incredible player was there.
It made me think that junior high must be an amazing place.
Best Setter Award
Oikawa Tooru
But that wasn't the case.
Best Setter Award
Oikawa Tooru
It was him that was amazing.
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
If I can outperform him,
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
I'll be the best setter in the prefecture!
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Certain
Victory
Kitagawa First Junior High
Karasuno's setter is amazing.
It's hard for a first-year to hold his own against Oikawa!
It's like "Clash of the Setters."
That's awesome! You're every bit as good as the Great King, Kageyama!
I don't care if I'm up against the
best overall player in the prefecture.
As a setter, I'm just as good.
But you have to serve next, don't you?
You're in the back row, right?
Can you do the same thing as before?
Isn't a dump from the back row illegal?
Shut up!
I-I meant I'd do it the next time I'm up front!
Haikyuu !!
I take two deep breaths and calm my heart
I take a step with my left foot to break the silence
Get your nervousness in check and reign in your mind
You have it in you
You can cast out the demons
Fate? Random chance? Questions? Answers? It's all one
This is the sign
Oh, yeah!
The world is opening to us
We pass the door,
look straight ahead, and never look back
Oh, yeah!
I put my hand to my chest
I can feel the proof that I exist
It is my beating heart
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Episode Twenty:
Oikawa Tooru is No Prodigy
Kageyama, give us a good serve!
Crap!
It's out!
He really sent it flying.
What a great home run.
Shit.
Shake it off!
I'm sorry!
All right, maybe I should show you how it's done.
Olé!
He aimed it at Nishinoya?!
Straight on!
No, it'll curve!
He took a serve from Oikawa!
Karasuno's libero is incredible!
Aw, they got it.
Oh dear. That guy is good.
Isn't that how it's done?!
He retrieved it like any other ball!
Send it to me!
It's number ten!
Yes!
Good!
Did you see what happened on the right?
Yeah.
Wasn't it Nekoma's setter who could distract with a glance?
His superhuman sets should be illegal, darn it.
I'm amazed Nishinoya got that up.
But do you suppose Oikawa only accidentally sent the ball to Nishinoya?
No, I think he aimed it at Nishinoya.
If Nishinoya failed to receive the ball,
it'd really demoralize the rest of the team.
Well done!
Thank you!
Do another one just like that!
Yes, sir!
I think that's what he was after.
Thank goodness.
You did good getting that one, Nishinoya.
I'm sorry. I keep getting suckered.
We're against a team who had Date Tech at their mercy.
Anyway, give it a minute.
It should be any time now.
The real matter is, Kindaichi.
You must be plenty upset that your place as
Kageyama's partner got taken over by that small fry.
No, not really—
It's okay, really.
So what if Tobio thought of you as a useless servant in junior high?
So what if Yours Truly can't do their trifling superhuman fast attack?
We'll prove to him that you're amazing in your own right.
You're good to jump.
Y-Yes, sir!
Tanaka, give us a good one!
A good one!
Watari!
Got it!
Nice receive!
Center!
A Quick!
Rule the Court
Is it just my imagination?
I think their number twelve is jumping higher than he did in the practice match.
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Iwa, give us a nice serve!
Sorry, cover it!
Okay!
Give me a set!
Hmm?
Teach! Hey, Teach!
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
What? Seijou is already calling a timeout?
Isn't it too early?
It didn't seem like Karasuno was about to steal the momentum.
I don't think I'm mistaken.
It's "send" or "give."
Have they already figured it out?
Damn, they're fast.
At first, I was like, "Wow, the small fry likes to shout as he dives in."
Give it to me!
It made me think maybe he forgot to pay his brain bill.
Until I noticed that when they do their superhuman fast attack, he says "send it my way" or "send it over here."
Phrases with the words "send it."
And when they do normal fast attacks...
They use the words "give me."
However, being a decoy is the small fry's weapon.
They want us to divert all of our attention to him.
That's why we're going to adopt simple operating procedures.
When we hear the words "send it," we'll mark only him.
When he says "give me," we'll wait to see the set, and then jump.
Okay?
Yessir!
Still, won't they realize that we've figured it out by taking a timeout so early in the match, when nothing is going on?
Let them!
That would actually be advantageous.
If they realize that we're on to them...
I'm almost certain it'll make Tobio lose his cool.
Hey, why so serious? That's not like you!
I beg to differ, Noya.
This is how he normally looks.
He makes this face when he dithers between milk and drinking yogurt.
You... I... That isn't true!
But, Noya, I really am amazed you managed to receive that serve!
I've received that serve before back in junior high.
It really was an amazing serve when it made it through,
but it also missed a lot,
and never had that degree of control.
He must've really worked on that.
I think it would take more than having one guy with impressive serves
or one really good setter to stay in the top 4.
Keep sharp or they'll take it away.
Let's pull it together!
Yeah!
Bleagh!
Right on!
What is "bleagh" supposed to mean?!
Never look down even if you mess up!
Now let's set the trap.
Kindaichi, you know where to aim, right?
Yes, sir!
One point!
Behind any powerful setup...
is a good, initial receive.
Kindaichi, give us a good one!
Weird. That serve didn't seem that powerful.
I'm sorry, I'll get the next one!
Shake it off!
Yes!
It's hard to receive it.
Are they aiming for where the setter moves from back row to front?
He's not serving like Oikawa,
so why can't the opponent receive it?
Ahem!
Ah, yes. About that.
Back
Front
When the setter is in the back row,
Back
he may not get closer to the front than the players in the front row until the serve is made.
Front
Back
That's why he must move quickly to the net the moment the opponent serves the ball.
The receive is momentarily delayed where the
players crisscross, so it's easy to make mistakes.
But as long as they know where the serve is coming...
Kindaichi, give us a good serve!
Yes!
...it's not impossible to receive.
Nice receive!
Yes!
They really use their heads in this sport.
Thank you, Mister!
Mister?!
Sure.
Now Oikawa is in the front row.
Number three!
We'll have to be on guard for the dump again.
Give us a good one!
Damn, this pressure is crazy.
There's already a four point gap.
We have two in the front row minus Hinata.
We need to move our rotation!
Nice receive!
Setter dump!
Nothing's easier to prevent than a rushed setter dump.
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Hiyah!
Yes!
Boo-ya!
Four more points, and we'll turn it around!
Boo-boo-ya!
You're so perky.
That's what makes you so annoying.
Give me a set!
When he says "give me," wait to see the set.
He's jumping!
All right!
They must've figured it out.
Kageyama, give us a good one!
One point!
This time, I won't miss!
It's too far forward!
Go forward!
Good, he adjusted for a soft hit!
I won't let you get your chance that easily!
Kageyama got the first touch!
He won't be able to set!
Tanaka!
Shit.
He turned a tight situation into an opportunity.
That's true strength under pressure.
He didn't learn the sport like the rest.
Shake it off!
One more point!
Now the serve is back to Oikawa.
Nothing feels more oppressive than when the usual big-talking, mood-maker goes silent.
Olé!
Nothing!
Haikyuu !!
Yes!
Sh-Shake it off! Go for the next point!
Flubbing consecutive serve receives can build up incredible pressure.
You start by silencing the perky cueball.
Next, the ace.
Breaking the two left wing spikers so pivotal to their offense
will render the excellent decoy meaningless.
That was fast!
All right!
Karasuno sure didn't wait to take a timeout.
That's because Seijou has the momentum.
They need to stop their momentum
before it becomes impossible to reverse.
I feel sorry for the guy they're targeting.
Just keep it up!
Even if you can't get it back to the setter, someone can always cover it as long as you keep it in the air.
Yessir!
By the way, Mister Kageyama.
What was that last dump of yours supposed to be?
I'm sorry, sir!
I lost composure.
As long as you're aware of it, that's fine.
Dumps aren't the problem.
It's beneficial to let our opponents be aware that we have a good variety of attacks.
But dumps are nearly always stoppable once they're on to you.
Choose when to use them carefully.
Yessir.
Next, don't forget who we're playing against.
We're playing against Aoba Jousai, not Oikawa.
Also, you're not playing them alone. We play as a team!
Yessir.
Give us a good one!
One more point!
Olé!
It's up!
Rule the Court
Looking good!
You're getting them up in the air, Tanaka!
Yessir!
Ryuu!
Hinata, cover it!
Yessir!
Tanaka!
It's number five!
Sir!
Right!
Now we've used up both our timeouts.
Stopping their momentum is the top priority.
With volleyball, it's all about keeping the ball in play,
so nothing feels worse than the guilt and loneliness that comes from repeatedly flubbing the vital serve receive.
Then they add insult to injury by shutting him out.
Is the guy with the crew cut gonna be okay?
Should I say something to him?
Tanaka always encourages me when I start to cave in.
I should say something.
Um...
I apologize!
Some things can't be avoided, Ryuu!
That last set was real difficult, and you had a triple block on you. I failed to back—
I failed to call for the set!
I freaked out for a second. Dammit!
I'll do a shitload of regretting once the match is done!
I have no real redeeming qualities,
so there's no use dragging down the team by caving over my own mistakes!
I'll make it count the next time!
The ability to say that is one heck of a redeeming quality!
Yessir.
It'll bounce off you by using your arms alone, so move your feet.
Asahi, you should try to be more like Ryuu!
I would if I could!
You know, I noticed this during that last timeout,
but isn't Oikawa acting a little weird?
Yeah. He says he does that so he won't break his concentration.
Most teams take timeouts to stop the momentum of those dangerous serves.
Now, bring it!
Oikawa, get another point!
Give us a nice serve!
Damn, he has full concentration.
The rest is up to you guys.
Olé!
If it bounces off me at a weird angle, it's all over! I have to receive it!
That could've hit him in face!
Shit, it's falling!
They sent it back!
And in the best possible spot.
Watacchi!
Yes, sir! Hanamaki!
Nice receive!
Sorry! Cover it!
Left!
Tanaka!
It's not as though he doesn't make mistakes.
And he's sensitive to jeers.
But not only is he the most powerful player second to Asahi,
he has the mental fortitude to maintain his performance when he's at the brink.
It's indisputable.
He has the makings of an ace.
Ooh! The short-haired guy from Karasuno did it for himself!
He took the momentum that Oikawa stole from them...
Yes!
...and stopped it!
Tanaka!
Aw, I was still good for a few more points.
Ryuu!
Tanaka!
Nice!
Guys, thanks for the awesome backup!
Whoa, that was my clearest look at a block ever!
There are times I can see the opponents' block real clear in midair, like in slow motion.
Almost like light is shining through it.
Tanaka, that's so cool!
Because I'm your upperclassman!
Tanaka, serve!
Yes, sir.
The momentum has been stopped.
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
It's still early in the match.
We can still catch up.
Nice job getting a hand on it!
We have a chance here!
Send it my way!
All right!
He's too fast even when we know he's coming!
Hey, you!
You'd better not tell me you still can't beat his sets.
You mean Tobio's? Of course I can't beat him.
I can't do pinpoint sets like he can.
Don't get mad!
Tanaka, give us a good serve!
Sure, I can't beat his talent, but I know I can produce the sets you all hit the best.
So I'm as good of a setter as he is.
It got in above the block again.
Don't look so surprised.
This has always been Kindaichi's optimum striking point.
Forward!
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
A seven point gap.
Nice receive!
We need to stop their momentum!
Send it my way!
He's looking sharper than ever!
Shit.
I'm sorry, I was a little too late.
A double block. They're keeping up with us.
That was close!
Shake it off! You'll get the next one.
If they stop us now, they'll have the momentum again.
Yes, sir. I'll do my best!
I need to lose one blocker.
When I was in my second year of high school,
I heard the nickname of a brilliant player in junior high.
"The King of the Court."
I thought, wow, what a prestigious nickname.
But once I watched him play,
I knew it meant something else.
He has the power. He has the talent.
He wants to win more than anyone else I know.
Those elements make Tobio tough,
but they're also a weakness.
You always try to do everything by yourself, Tobio.
And it's only been about two months.
It takes longer than that to cure a bad habit.
Hanamaki, nice spike!
Nice!
Boo-ya!
Hinata!
You know the signals we talked about? It's time to change our strategy.
Do you mean we're using the new ones?
Cover it!
Matsukawa, nice block!
I've got it!
One more time!
Hey, is it just me, or is Karasuno's offense gradually speeding up?
I don't like this acceleration.
We've already used up our timeouts.
Go slow! Don't lose your cool!
It's a collective speed trance.
They want to dodge the blockers so badly, they accidentally prioritize speed over ease and accuracy.
Subconsciously and ever so gradually
it steadily leads to bigger miscalculations.
Tobio, you're a prodigy.
You're the only one who can pull off those attacks with the small fry.
But how about the rest?
Don't you think if you set it more slowly to your number three,
he would have the caliber to compete with our blockers?
Does Four-eyes truly trust your sets when he hits that ball?
All spikers are unique.
Only a true setter can bring out all their strengths...
completely.
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
It's no good.
The gap isn't shrinking.
I need to do something, anything!
It's over the net!
Push it back, Kageyama!
It's like Kageyama isn't himself somehow.
Nice receive!
I'll be damned if I'll lose!
I refuse to lose!
I have to win and stay on the court!
Asahi, nice backup!
We have a chance here!
Oikawa is talented, and he puts in a good effort.
But when you compare him to a whiz like Kageyama, two years his junior...
Oikawa is a class act, but he is no prodigy.
Yet, I can still say with certainty,
the better setter of the two right now...
is Oikawa.
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
We run laps convinced that we will all make it
We suffer through the nights for a vision we chose on a whim
If you really want fairness then we'd all look basically the same
We will suffer through more nights for a vision instead of standing still
Our passion burns until the morning and we advance with closed eyes
I haven't forgotten you despite this passion
I run with only my headlight for guidance
No matter what awaits me I will laugh in this body I was born in
Is there someone running with your taillight for guidance?
What you call determination just means bunching up
Is someone going to follow up on all these impressions?
Will vowing to never falter let me laugh again?
Next Episode Preview
A swap now?
Yeah, that's so painful.
It's hard to hold your head up high when you leave the court.
But dude, Shimada.
You've always been a bench warmer.
Oh.
Episode Twenty-one:
The Talented Upperclassman
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"The Talented Upperclassman."